How to use AIS
==============

AIS remembers things for you. You save anything (a link, a note, a phone
number, a document) under one or more keywords, and get it back by typing those
keywords. Think of a private search box over your own stuff.


OPEN IT
-------

  Windows   Double-click  ais-web.bat  (or type  ais --serve  in a terminal)
  macOS     Double-click  ais-web.command
            (the first time: right-click it, choose Open, and confirm once)
  Linux     Double-click  ais-web.desktop , or type  ais --serve  in a terminal

Each one opens AIS in your web browser at  http://127.0.0.1:8765 . A small
window may stay open while AIS runs; close it when you are done.


USE IT
------

The everyday actions are recall and add; you can also fix or remove an item.

  Recall    Type keywords in the search box and press Enter. Matching items
            appear, one per line; links are clickable.
            Example: type   venice italy   to see everything filed under both.

  Add       Click  + Add . Type what you want to remember in the top box, add a
            few keywords below if you like (optional), then Save. It appears
            right away.

  Edit /    Each result has small  Edit value ,  Edit tags  and  Delete
  remove    actions. "Edit value" rewrites the item's text in place; the item
            keeps its place in the timeline and its keywords, and the change
            reaches your other devices the same way. "Edit tags" adds or
            removes keywords on that one item: type a keyword to add it, or
            -keyword  to remove it; the item itself stays. "Delete" removes
            the whole item.

The timeline shows your most recent items; "Load more" reveals older ones.


PREFER TYPING? (Linux and macOS)
--------------------------------

  ais venice italy                  recall items under BOTH keywords
  ais -o venice rome                recall items under EITHER keyword
  ais -v "Hotel Danieli" venice     save a value under keywords
  ais --update 42 rome -- -venice   on item 42 (the id shown as id|value):
                                    add 'rome', remove 'venice'
  ais --del 42                      delete item 42
  ais --help                        the full list of commands

A coding agent can read the same index as a tool: see doc/MCP.md.


WHERE YOUR THINGS ARE SAVED
---------------------------

Plain text files on your own computer, in your home folder at
~/.ais (Windows: %USERPROFILE%\.ais). Type  ais --where  to see the
exact location. They are yours: read them, copy them, or delete them (BACKING
UP, below). Nothing is ever uploaded anywhere.


AIS writes no log when all is well: that is the rule. If it hits a real error
it leaves a single file (Windows GUI: %LOCALAPPDATA%\AIS\ais-error.log); its
mere existence means a genuine problem, not a typo, so send it along. On Linux
and macOS, run AIS from a terminal to see any error.


BACKING UP
----------

  Where       Type  ais --where  to print the folder your index is in.

  What        In that folder, "store" and the "blobs" folder hold what you
              saved. The other files carry deletions and sync bookkeeping, and
              only some of them can be rebuilt, so copy the whole folder.

  Copy        Copy that folder to a USB stick, another disk, or anywhere else.
              That copy is a complete backup; put it back in place to restore.

  Or export   One plain-text file instead of a folder:

                  ais --export > memories.ais

              It holds every record and the text of every document you saved
              with  --doc . To restore it into a fresh index:

                  ais --init -f ~/ais-restored
                  ais --import -f ~/ais-restored < memories.ais

  Pointers    A link or a file path is a pointer. Backing up the index backs up
              the pointer, never the web page or the file at the other end;
              those you back up where they live.

Your home folder ~/.ais also holds "config", the list of your named indexes. It
is harmless to copy along with the rest.


ON A PHONE
----------

The phone app keeps your index in its private storage. Uninstalling the app
deletes that storage, index included, on both Android and iOS. Android's
uninstall dialog can show a "Keep app data" checkbox; some phones omit it or
ignore it, so do not count on it.

To keep the index alive on Android, give it a folder: after your first save
the app offers "Set folder", and Sync has "Keep a copy in a folder". The app
then keeps a copy of the whole index there, refreshed after every change, and
that copy stays when the app is uninstalled. After a reinstall, tap "Restore
from a folder" on the empty start screen and pick that folder; your records
come back. A folder synced to another machine (Syncthing, a cloud drive)
protects against losing the phone itself.

On iOS there is no folder to give yet: use Sync > Export to a file now and
then, and save it in the Files app or send it somewhere safe. Restore with
Sync > Import from a file.

The same two entries move an index between a phone and a computer with no
network or folder in common: export, email the file to yourself, import it
on the other device. The file is not encrypted. Both directions, step by
step: doc/SYNC.md, "By email, or any app that carries a file".
